### introduction to computer science i
##### taught by: david a. smallberg

With 70% of our class (by an educated guess) consisting of cracked bay area kids, “nervous” was an understatement of how I felt going into CS31. I was fully expecting myself to be overwhelmed with confusion, fail all the projects, and drag down the average on tests. A college CS class?? Bruh the ones in high school were tough enough, and now they’re being upgraded! But then again, part of my outlook on life entails seeing things in the most negative light possible, so that any spark of positivity would bring me joy and happiness. So yeah, I was definitely being dramatic.

But seriously, CS31 is the rite to passage for all CS majors at UCLA. In high school, I did pretty basic programming: just your normal loops, functions, conditionals, etc, stuff taught in APCSA. Part of me was like chill bro, CS31 will just be like APCSA but in C++ (which it did kinda turn out to be). And the other part of me was like bro, you are so done screwed, taking a class with USACO platinum people and fellas who’ve already done cs internships? BUT if you find yourself thinking the latter like I did, just don’t. Please don’t. Some people came in with zero programming knowledge, which was totally 150% OK!! CS31 was meant for complete beginners in the first place, and if you have even a bit of programming experience, you’re bing chilling in this class.

CS31 taught you C++ syntax. Starting from variables, conditionals, loops, all the way to pointers, structs/classes, dynamic memory allocation, and more. You’ll be using either Visual Studio (windows) or XCode (mac) to write programs. We also had “projects” every 2 weeks that had you write programs for everything learned up to date in the class. For example, Project 3 required you to know how to manipulate strings and use loops, alongside variable declaration and other fun stuff you learned beforehand; Project 7 (our last project) required you to know everything taught in the class. The projects were by no means difficult; as long as you pay close attention to his lectures, fully understand the material, and start early, you’re fine. Our class average was 90+ for every project. 

### class structure
- windows people - use visual studio to write and compile your code. mac people - use xcode.
- smallberg had this “flipped classroom” system going on, so his lectures were video recordings posted on bruinlearn, and the actual “in-person” lectures were q&a sessions. in-person in double quotes because no one went to the sessions lol. he gave an option to watch on zoom, which made raising your hand at la kretz 110 (mind you, a 30 minute hike from the hill) equivalent to typing in chat with your camera off sitting on your bed. the superior option is clear as day. also, he posts the q&a session recordings afterwards, further incentivizing you to skip his “lectures” as you could just watch them back on 1.5x speed later :p
- his lecture recordings (taught content) were great! smallberg’s really good at explaining concepts in detail, making them easy to understand. take notes and write down niche points (like the cin.ignore thing and char → int conversions). also watch them on 1.5x speed cause he can talk a bit slow (not 2x tho cause smallberg will sound like a chipmunk). you will learn a lot about dennis ritchie’s decisions when creating the C++ language in smallberg’s lectures.
- zybook. did I mention that we were required to by a $70 textbook that could only be used until the end of the quarter? an online textbook, at that. annoying as heck on a financial note, but hey the textbook’s actually pretty helpful. we do some interactive homework assignments on there, and overall it’s a great review tool for upcoming tests.

### grading system
 - **homework**: worth negligible points. mostly just clicking through activities on zybook or filling out surveys.
 - **7 projects**: worth almost half your grade. they were doable! smallberg gives you super detailed project specs (instruction pdf’s) that have faq sections and even provides an occassional “sanity checker.” also there are plenty of open office hours throughout the weeks, so you’re chilling on this aspect if you START EARLY (as in, the day the project gets assigned).
 - **2 midterms**: 20% of your grade. weren’t too hard, around 4-5 pages in a 2 hour time span if I remember correctly. questions were code writing, multiple choice, code tracing, bug-fixing, etc. smallberg gives you practice exams but they aren’t similar to the actual test; however, if you dedicate time to truly understanding the concepts taught, you’ll ace these midterms.
 - **final**: 30% of your grade. the most traumatic event i went through in fall ‘22. will not elaborate further.

### more on projects
 - project submissions were not how I expected them to be going into the class. this will all get explained to you clearly in class, but basically we had to use a “seasnet terminal” to test our code, since our programs were being judged with the g++ compiler. xcode/visual studio compilers can sometimes fail to detect memory leaks and small errors that would appear on the seasnet compiler, so even though it’s not actually required, still always run your code on seasnet before you turn it in!
 - we don’t get to see his test cases (in fact, we have to write our own!!), so upon submission you just gotta pray that your code will pass. testing for edge cases on your own is extremely important.

```c++
    //appendToAll function
    string a[3] = { "rishi", "margaret", ""};
    assert(appendToAll(a, 3, "?") == 3 && a[0] == "rishi?" 
    && a[1] == "margaret?" && a[2] == "?");
    //append to no elements in array
    assert(appendToAll(a, 0, "?") == 0 && a[0] == "rishi?" 
    && a[1] == "margaret?");
    //negative n input
    assert(appendToAll(a, -3, "") == -1);

    //positionOfMax function
    //array of empty strings
    string g[5] = {};
    assert(positionOfMax(g,5) == 0);
    //nonunique string elements
    string y[4] = {"hello", "hello","hello","hello"};
    assert(positionOfMax(y, 4) == 0);
```
 - in my opinion, projects 4 and 7 were the worst. project 4 was insanely tedious (not hard at all, but my lazy bum hates writing testcases which half this project was about), and project 7 was just…yeah you’ll see. smallberg hits you in the face with a 600-line code file and expects you to understand the code when in reality you’re just scrolling up and down endlessly trying to figure out how each function relates to one another. trust me, the worst part about project 7 was just understanding what the hell was happening in the code; the actual implementation wasn’t bad.
- yup, we had project reports due for nearly every project!! you just gotta write about an “obstacle” you faced while writing the program and include screenshots of your testcases + a short explanation for each of your testcases.

### example: project 1
```c++
// Code for Project 1
// Report poll results
    
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main()
{
    int numberSurveyed;
    int forGavin;
    int forBrian;

    cout << "How many registered voters were surveyed? ";
    cin >> numberSurveyed;
    cout << "How many of them say they will vote for Gavin? ";
    cin >> forGavin;
    cout << "How many of them say they will vote for Brian? ";
    cin >> forBrian;

    double pctGavin = 100.0 * forGavin / numberSurveyed;
    double pctBrian = 100.0 * forBrian / numberSurveyed;

    cout.setf(ios::fixed);
    cout.precision(1);

    cout << endl;
    cout << pctGavin << "% say they will vote for Gavin." << endl;
    cout << pctBrian << "% say they will vote for Brian." << endl;

    if (forGavin > forBrian)
        cout << "Gavin is predicted to win the election." << endl;
    else
        cout << "Brian is predicted to win the election." << endl;
}
```