### on escapism and books
#### 07/24/2023
wow, i haven’t written down my thoughts in a while. this is gonna feel extremely awkward. bear with me, as my words will probably not make much sense and my sentences choppy; but hopefully i’ll be able to iterate my thoughts in a semi-understandable manner today. 

the main reason i haven’t been journaling lately is my gradual submersion into superficial society. everything i do now is to blend into society, to appear a normal and likeable person, and this is the tragic downfall of my unique consciousness. my identity as a unique being has been drastically muted (perhaps ever since i started university), and it constantly feels like i’m operating on a surface level. *am i becoming one of those zepeto sim creatures?* like, every action i take is not intentionally thought through but rather a reflection of what is considered “normal” or “trendy” in today’s world, and every thought i have is geared towards — “how can i make myself a cooler person? how can i make other people like me?” 

just perfectly summed up my people pleasing tendencies and made it sound more serious than it actually is. really, i just need to embrace myself as i am and stop giving a fuck about what other people perceive me as. but it’s just insanely difficult to do so when everything i consume revolves around stuff like achieving impossible beauty standards and other superficial, impressionable things. 

so, i’m slowly losing myself, slipping away from what makes me *me*, finding my happiness determined my other people. maybe it’s because i’m scared of this happening that i no longer care and actively escape the action of thinking and living for myself, because it really *is* much easier for me to live for others and think like others. after all then, you can blame everything terrible occasion that lands upon you on “society,” on “other people,” on “the world we live in” instead of finding the root cause in yourself (which it probably, most likely, yes, most definitely is). i’m sure i’m not the only one who feels this way; human beings do not like holding themselves accountable for unfornate events that happen to them. putting the blame on others and escaping to a world where everything is perfect, your skin is clear and your gpa is 4.0…isn’t that what we all try to do?

anyways, recently i’ve also been reading some books in an attempt to save myself from plummeting into the void of stupidity, which i definitely would if i keep watching hours of cdramas/anime everyday after work like i’ve been doing for the past month. obtained some books from 誠品 like “a man’s search for meaning,” “how to make friends and influence people,” and a compilation of george orwell’s essays. “how to …” (too long, don’t wanna type it) is an amazing, amazing book...

### confusion, or more specifically, loss of direction
#### 2023

cringe alert! young joyce had big dreams. inexperienced with what the word “fleeting” entailed, life seemed incredibly long. long enough to be able to dip my toes into every single hobby out there in existence, to accomplish personal goals while making big money, and to be charitable and kind to other people. “17 years old is old,” my younger self would have said. any age past 10 seemed like an eternity away, and i even doubted whether i’d reach 11 years of age without dying beforehand. 

and today, i’ve survived nearly 2 decades of life which is still hard to believe, like how’d you manage to pull through all this mess lmao. all my life has been kind of wrapped in this cloud of fog, with me never really knowing what my end goal is, what i like/dislike, who i want to be friends with, or why my parents were treating me this way. it’s getting much better nowadays, but sometimes i wonder why i’m wired in a way such that i’m always subjected to the influence of other people. isn’t it my life to live at the end of the day? frankly this sounds like a dumb thing to be pressed about, but i seriously have never had a strong opinion about anything at all. friendships, food, school… all their wonderful and bad parts are mingled together inside my mind, forming a gray bubble. black and white don’t exist in my dictionary, because there are always multiple sides to a story, just as there are multiple perspectives, outlooks, and backgrounds that people have.